`RichTooltip/Popover` component - `PopoverPrimitive` component documentation [03b] (#2046)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/utilities/popover-primitive/partials/code/how-to-use.md

!!! Warning

This component is intended only for internal Helios use. If you need to use it, please [contact](/about/support) the Design Systems Team.
!!!

## How to use this component

> The `PopoverPrimitive` is a **headless component** that associates a "toggle" element with a "popover" element (both elements act as containers). "Soft" (hover/focus) or "click" event listeners can be assigned to the "toggle", and when triggered they toggle the visibility of the "popover".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `PopoverPrimitive` is a **headless component** that associates a "toggle" element with a "popover" element (both elements act as containers). "Soft" (hover/focus) or click event listeners can be assigned to the toggle, and when triggered they toggle the visibility of the popover.
```

> When the "popover" is visible, it can be closed in various ways: toggling via the "soft" or "click" events, clicking outside of the popover, or via the `esc` key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the popover is visible, it can be closed in various ways: toggling via the "soft" or click events, clicking outside of the popover, or via the `esc` key.
```

Reviewer: I'm leaving "soft" in quotes since a HDS coined term and seems more likely to be misunderstood but it may not be necessary for it either...

Found this reference:
https://writingcenter.uagc.edu/quotation-marks#:~:text=Use%20quotation%20marks%20around%20unusual,been%20introduced%20the%20first%20time.

Normally you only need to use quotes the first time when introducing a technical term but not throughout the entire document.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we should update this text to use `light dismiss` since that is the technical term for pressing the ESC key or clicking outside to close.

> Under the hood the component uses the [native web Popover API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API) to promote the popover content to the [top layer](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Top_layer). This solves the issues related to stacking contexts and provides the "light dismiss" (click outside / `esc` key) out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the hood, the component uses the [native web Popover API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API) to promote the popover content to the [top layer](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Top_layer). This solves issues related to stacking contexts and provides "light dismiss" functionality (click outside / `esc` key) out of the box.
```

> The primitive also uses the third-party library [Floating UI](https://floating-ui.com/) to provide the anchoring and automatic positioning/collision detection functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The primitive also uses the [Floating UI](https://floating-ui.com/) third-party library to provide anchoring as well as automatic positioning and collision detection functionality.
```

For older browsers (in particular Firefox 124 and older) that don't support the Popover API, it uses a [Popover Polyfill](https://github.com/oddbird/popover-polyfill) library to emulate the native behaviour.

!!! Insight

**Learn more**

> - For details about the native web Popover API see: [MDN / Popover API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For details about the native web Popover API, see: [MDN / Popover API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API)
```

> - For details about the Floating UI third-party library see: [Floating UI](https://floating-ui.com/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For details about the Floating UI third-party library, see: [Floating UI](https://floating-ui.com/)
```

> For details about the Floating UI third-party library see: [Floating UI](https://floating-ui.com/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Duplicated

Author: Probably effect of some auto-resolution of conflicts.

!!!

> The internal logic and APIs of this component are quite complex, it's impossible to describe everything in detail. Below we provide a few basic examples, but if you need more in-depth knowledge of how the primitive can be configured and used we suggest looking at the source code of the component itself, as well as the `hds-anchored-position` modifier, which is a custom wrapper around the Floating UI library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The internal logic and APIs of this component are quite complex; it's impossible to describe everything in detail. Below we provide a few basic examples, but if you need more in-depth knowledge of how the primitive can be configured and used, we suggest looking at the source code of the component itself as well as the `hds-anchored-position` modifier, which is a custom wrapper around the Floating UI library.
```

### Basic invocation

> The basic invocation of this primitive sees three different modifiers (`setupPrimitiveContainer`, `setupPrimitiveToggle`, and `setupPrimitivePopover`) applied to three distinct elements (they can be HTML elements or Ember components):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The basic invocation of this primitive uses three different modifiers (`setupPrimitiveContainer`, `setupPrimitiveToggle`, and `setupPrimitivePopover`) applied to three distinct elements (which can be either HTML elements or Ember components):
```

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::PopoverPrimitive as |PP|>
  <div id="container" {{PP.setupPrimitiveContainer}}>
    <button id="toggle" {{PP.setupPrimitiveToggle}}>toggle</button>
    <div id="popover" {{PP.setupPrimitivePopover}}>popover content</div>
  </div>
</Hds::PopoverPrimitive>
```

> The primitive itself doesn't provide any styling to the container, toggle, popover (and arrow) elements, and doesn't generate any extra HTML beyond the one yielded to the component itself. It provides only the popover, anchoring, and collision detection functionalities to the elements that the "setup" modifiers are applied to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The primitive itself doesn't provide any styling to the container, toggle, popover (or arrow) elements, and doesn't generate any extra HTML beyond that which is yielded to the component itself. It provides only the popover, anchoring, and collision detection functionalities to the elements that the "setup" modifiers are applied to.
```

### Event listeners

The visibility of the popover can be toggled via "soft" event listeners (hover/focus) applied to the toggle element:

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::PopoverPrimitive @enableSoftEvents={{true}} as |PP|>
  <div id="container" {{PP.setupPrimitiveContainer}}>
    <button id="toggle" {{PP.setupPrimitiveToggle}}>toggle</button>
    <div id="popover" {{PP.setupPrimitivePopover}}>popover content</div>
  </div>
</Hds::PopoverPrimitive>
```

> _Notice: from a purely technical standpoint, the events are `mouseEnter/Leave` and `focusIn/Out`._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Notice: The actual technical events used are `mouseEnter/Leave` and `focusIn/Out`._
```

!!!

### Content positioning

The popover element can be positioned in relation to the toggle anchor using the `placement` argument of the `@anchoredPositionOptions`:

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::PopoverPrimitive as |PP|>
  <div id="container" {{PP.setupPrimitiveContainer}}>
    <button id="toggle" {{PP.setupPrimitiveToggle}}>toggle</button>
    <div
      id="popover"
      {{PP.setupPrimitivePopover anchoredPositionOptions=(hash placement="top-start")}}
    >popover content</div>
  </div>
</Hds::PopoverPrimitive>
```

### Collision detection

The collision detection logic can be controlled using the `enableCollisionDetection` argument of the `@anchoredPositionOptions`:

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::PopoverPrimitive as |PP|>
  <div id="container" {{PP.setupPrimitiveContainer}}>
    <button id="toggle" {{PP.setupPrimitiveToggle}}>toggle</button>
    <div
      id="popover"
      {{PP.setupPrimitivePopover anchoredPositionOptions=(hash enableCollisionDetection=true)}}
    >popover content</div>
  </div>
</Hds::PopoverPrimitive>
```

> For details about how the collision detection works refer to the [Floating UI > Tutorial](https://floating-ui.com/docs/tutorial).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details about how the collision detection works, refer to the [Floating UI > Tutorial](https://floating-ui.com/docs/tutorial).
```

### With an arrow

> It is possible to account for an arrow element in the positioning of the popover, if an `arrowSelector` (or directly an `arrowElement` reference) if provided to the `anchoredPositionOptions`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to account for an arrow element in the positioning of the popover, if an `arrowSelector` (or directly an `arrowElement` reference) is provided to the `anchoredPositionOptions`:
```

```handlebars{data-execute=false}
<Hds::PopoverPrimitive as |PP|>
  <div id="container" {{PP.setupPrimitiveContainer}}>
    <button id="toggle" {{PP.setupPrimitiveToggle}}>toggle</button>
    <div
      id="popover"
      {{PP.setupPrimitivePopover anchoredPositionOptions=(hash arrowSelector="arrow")}}
    >
      <div id="arrow" />
      popover content
    </div>
  </div>
</Hds::PopoverPrimitive>
```

### Other `anchoredPositionOptions`

> There are more possible options and configurations that can be provided to the popover via the `@anchoredPositionOptions` argument. Refer to the [Component API](#component-api) section below for more details, and to the code of the `hds-anchored-position` modifier for in depth understanding of how this modifier works under the hood.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other options and configurations can be provided to the popover via the `@anchoredPositionOptions` argument. Refer to the [Component API](#component-api) section below for more details, and to the code of the `hds-anchored-position` modifier for an in-depth understanding of how this modifier works.
```

### Event listeners (for toggle)

The visibility of the `:content` block can be toggled via "soft" event listeners (hover/focus) applied to the `:toggle` container:

```handlebars
<Hds::PopoverPrimitive
  @enableSoftEvents={{true}}
  class="doc-popover-primitive-custom-style"
>
  <:toggle>hover or focus me</:toggle>
  <:content>your popover content here</:content>
</Hds::PopoverPrimitive>
```

_Notice: from a pure technical standpoint, the events are `mouseEnter/Leave` and `focusIn/Out`._

Alternatively, the toggle behaviour can be enabled via "click" events:

```handlebars
<Hds::PopoverPrimitive
  @enableClickEvents={{true}}
  class="doc-popover-primitive-custom-style"
>
  <:toggle>click me</:toggle>
  <:content>your popover content here</:content>
</Hds::PopoverPrimitive>
```

!!! Warning

> Important: if you don't apply any of the `@enableSoftEvents` or `@enableClickEvents` the popover will not become visible with any kind of interaction (unless it's rendered already opened via the special `@isOpen` argument).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Important: if you don't apply either `@enableSoftEvents` or `@enableClickEvents` the popover will not become visible with any kind of interaction (unless it's rendered already opened via the special `@isOpen` argument).
```

!!!

### Content positioning

The `:content` block can be positioned in relation to the `:toggle` block using the `placement` argument of the `@anchoredPositionOptions`:

```handlebars
<Hds::PopoverPrimitive
  @anchoredPositionOptions={{(hash placement="top-start")}}
  @enableSoftEvents={{true}}
  class="doc-popover-primitive-custom-style"
>
  <:toggle>toggle</:toggle>
  <:content>your popover content here</:content>
</Hds::PopoverPrimitive>
```

### Content sizing

The `:content` block can be assigned fixed horizontal/vertical sizes using the `@popoverWidth` and `@popoverHeight` arguments:

```handlebars
<Hds::PopoverPrimitive
  @enableSoftEvents={{true}}
  @popoverWidth="200px"
  @popoverHeight="100px"
  class="doc-popover-primitive-custom-style"
>
  <:toggle>toggle</:toggle>
  <:content>your popover content here</:content>
</Hds::PopoverPrimitive>
```

### Collision detection

> It's possible to enable the collision detection logic using the `enableCollisionDetection` argument of the `@anchoredPositionOptions`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Enable the collision detection logic using the `enableCollisionDetection` argument of the `@anchoredPositionOptions`:
```

```handlebars
<Hds::PopoverPrimitive
  @anchoredPositionOptions={{(hash enableCollisionDetection=true)}}
  @enableSoftEvents={{true}}
  class="doc-popover-primitive-custom-style"
>
  <:toggle>toggle</:toggle>
  <:content>your popover content here</:content>
</Hds::PopoverPrimitive>
```

For details about how the collision detection works refer to the [Floating UI > Tutorial](https://floating-ui.com/docs/tutorial).

### Other `anchoredPositionOptions`

There are more possible options and configurations that can be provided to the popover via the `@anchoredPositionOptions` argument. Refer to the [Component API](#component-api) section below for more details.

### Applied to interactive elements

> If the popover is applied to an element that is interactive (e.g., a button, a link, an input) or that contains interactive elements as children, the "wrapping" `:toggle` element must be rendered as a generic `<div>` instead of a `<button>` to avoid nesting interactive elements (not accessible). To achieve that, you have to set `@toggleContainsInteractive` to `true` (in this case you have to use "soft" event listeners for the toggle):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the popover is applied to an element that is interactive (e.g., a button, a link, an input) or that contains interactive elements as children, the "wrapping" `:toggle` element must be rendered as a generic `<div>` instead of a `<button>` to avoid nesting interactive elements (not accessible). To achieve this, set `@toggleContainsInteractive` to `true` (in this case you have to use "soft" event listeners for the toggle):
```

```handlebars
<Hds::PopoverPrimitive
  @toggleContainsInteractive={{true}}
  @enableSoftEvents={{true}}
  class="doc-popover-primitive-custom-style"
>
  <:toggle>
    <button type="button" {{on "click" this.onClickButton}}>Click me</button>
  </:toggle>
  <:content>your popover content here</:content>
</Hds::PopoverPrimitive>
```

### With an arrow

> It's possible to add an arrow to the popover element by setting the `@popoverHasArrow` argument to `true`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Add an arrow to the popover element by setting the `@popoverHasArrow` argument to `true`:
```
